(Music) Making sense of the endless streams of data is where Artificial
Intelligence, or AI, comes in. Many of the applications where we apply AI today
simply wouldn't have been possible without the scalable, on-demand computing
offered by the cloud. There is a three-way relationship between AI, IoT, and
Cloud. Just as AI consumes the data produced by IoT devices, the IoT devices’
behavior can be dictated based on responses from AI. For example, Smart
Assistants, a common type of IoT device, continues to learn about the user’s
preferences as usage grows, such as the songs they like, their home temperature
settings, preferred meal times, and over time they anticipate their actions
based on the user’s past history. So, what we see is a symbiotic relationship
between IoT, AI, and Cloud. IoT delivers the data, AI powers the insights, and
both these emerging technologies leverage cloud’s scalability and processing
power to provide value to individuals and businesses alike. Let’s look at how
the United States Tennis Association, USTA, is using AI on the Cloud to deliver
unique digital experiences to millions of fans around the world. For two weeks
at the end of every summer, tennis fans around the world turn their eyes to New
York city, and the US Open. Hundreds of thousands onsite, and millions more
online. But where you see tennis, IBM sees data; the scores and statistics, the
sights, the sounds. IBM integrates and analyzes the data flowing from the court.
And delivers unique digital experiences to more than ten million tennis fans
around the world. And we do it all in the IBM Cloud. The IBM Cloud is the
digital foundation of the US Open. It scales rapidly to meet a five thousand
percent increase in web traffic and it delivers a consistant experience to our
fans all around the globe. And with Watson on the IBM Cloud, we can engage fans
in unique ways, year after year. Slam Tracker analyzes more than twenty-six
million historical data points. It gives fans deep insight into featured
matches, and it can see the momentum of a match shifting in real time. AI
Highlights uses Watson to process thousands of hours of US Open video. It can
hear the cheers of the crowd. It can see a player celebrating and it knows what
makes a great tennis highlight. And this year we're putting the power of AI
Highlights into the hands of US players and coaches. Watson is analyzing match
video, so coaches can quickly find the footage they need to guide the
development of their players. And if you need to know where to park, find a good
burger, or grab the latest US Open gear, you can find the answers with the Guest
Information feature in the US Open app and mobile web, using Watson. We work
with IBM because they keep us on the cutting edge of the fan experience. They
help us to adopt the latest technology, like Cloud and AI. And they bring data
to life in a way that's accessible and engaging for our fans. In the next video,
we’re going to look at how Blockchain and Analytics on the cloud are impacting
businesses.