(Music) A bare metal server is a single-tenant, dedicated physical server. In
other words, it's dedicated to a single customer. The cloud provider actually
takes the physical server and plugs it into a rack in a data center for
customers. The cloud provider manages the server up to the operating system or
OS, which means if anything goes wrong with the hardware or rack connection,
they will fix or replace it and then reboot the server. The customer is
responsible for administering and managing everything else on the server. Bare
metal servers are either preconfigured by the cloud provider to meet workload
packages or they can be custom-configured as per customer specifications. This
includes the processors, RAM, hard drives, specialized components, and the OS.
Customers can also install their own OS and can install certain hypervisors that
aren't available from the cloud provider, and thus create their own virtual
machines and farms. With bare metal servers you can also add GPUs, which are
designed for accelerating scientific computation, data analytics, and rendering
professional grade virtualized graphics. Because bare metal servers are physical
machines, they take longer to provision than virtual servers. Pre-configured
builds of bare metal can take 20 to 40 minutes to provision and custom-builds
can take around three or four hours, but these provisioning times can vary by
Cloud provider. As Bare Metal servers are dedicated for use by a single client
at any given time, they tend to be more expensive than similarly sized Virtual
Machines. Also note that unlike virtual servers, not all cloud providers provide
Bare Metal servers. Since bare metal servers are fully customizable, they can do
what a customer wants in the most demanding environments. Bare metal servers are
dedicated and intended for long term, high performance use in highly secure and
isolated environments. Clients have full access and control of bare metal
servers because there’s no hypervisor required. As there is no sharing
underlying server hardware with other customers, Bare metal servers fulfil the
demanding needs of high-performance computing or HPC and data intense
applications that require minimal latency-related delays. These servers also
excel in big data analytics applications and GPU-intensive solutions. Some
workload examples that bare metal servers satisfy are ERP, CRM, AI, Deep
Learning, and virtualization. If you use any applications that require high
degrees of security control or apps that you’ve typically run in an on-premises
environment, then a bare metal server is a good alternative in the cloud. When
comparing bare metal servers to virtual servers, some of the most important
considerations are found in customer need. Bare metal servers work best for: CPU
and I/O intensive workloads, excel with highest performance and security,
satisfy strict compliance requirements, and offer complete flexibility, control
and transparency but come with added management and operational overhead.
Whereas, virtual servers are rapidly provisioned, provide an elastic and
scalable environment, and are low cost to use, however since they share
underlying hardware with other virtual servers, they can be limited in
throughput and performance.