(Music) Blockchain is a secure, distributed, open technology that can help speed
up processes, lower costs, and build transparency and traceability in
transactional applications. It is an immutable Network allowing members to view
only those transactions that are relevant to them. The more open, diverse, and
distributed the network, the stronger the trust and transparency in the data and
transactions. 85% of businesses today rely on multiple clouds to meet their IT
needs, with more than 70% using more than three. These businesses need to be
able to move applications and data across multiple clouds easily and securely,
leading to the emerging demand to build and manage business applications such as
blockchain for the multi cloud environment. Blockchain and AI, much like IoT and
AI, powered by the cloud, also have a three-way relationship. Where blockchain
technology provides the trusted, decentralized source of truth, AI powers the
analytics and decision-making from the data collected, and cloud provides
globally distributed, scalable, and cost-efficient computing resources to
support both the unprecedented amounts of data being collected and the
processing power required to draw insights from this data. Blockchain serves to
make AI more understandable by recording the data and variables that go into a
decision made in an AI algorithm, leading to greater trust and transparency in
the conclusions and decisions made by these algorithms. Let's look at how
blockchain on the cloud is helping farmers reduce waste at times of recall by
building traceability and transparency in the food supply chain. For farmers
here, this is our life's work.  60% of the nation's lettuce is grown right here
in Salinas. When it comes down to how plants are looked at, I really relate back
to how humans are raised and nurtured. I want to make sure that everything is
safe before it leaves the ranch. But when a recall happens, perfectly good food
goes to waste. You have to take all product off your shelf, no matter what age,
no matter where it came from. And it takes resources to grow those things. Now
we're actually eating into our future food supply. But we've gotta way around
that.  With Blockchain technology on the IBM cloud we're able to track our
product within seconds. Giving the consumers instant access where the product
came from, in case there's any recall so we don't have to take all the food off
the shelves. Having that instant access allows you to reduce the waste. There's
a lot of starving people in this world.  I want to be a generation that fixes
that. Analytics technologies on the cloud leverage the flexibility, scalability,
and computing resources available on the cloud. From tracking trends on social
media to predict future events, to analyzing data to build machine learning
models that can be deployed in cognitive applications, cloud provides the
integrated environment that is required to leverage data for continuous
improvement and accelerated business growth. Let's look at how KONE has invested
in cloud and IoT technologies to power a data analytics and predictive
maintenance solution for city infrastructure used by more than 1 billion people
daily. At KONE we manufacture elevators, escalators, auto walks, and doors All
of these devices are streams of data that we are collecting. In order to process
those streams, we need a scalable way of handling the amount of data that is
coming in. And that's where cloud function fits in perfectly. We handle that
data with event-driven architecture. We use functions to persist that data, and
to generate further events on that data, that are then utilized and consumed by
applications, our customers and users. In our analytics platform, we analyzed
the set of data and we generate value predictive in a sense that we can predict
the failure rate to a certain percentage that is about to happen in the future
for our equipment.  And this allows us to perform predictive maintenance. And
this is kind of the whole concept that we have behind our 24/7 connected
services, which is a promise to our customers that, the equipment is connected
to the cloud and we are monitoring it and that's where we generate the real a
value for our customers. At the moment we use almost all aspects of the IBM
cloud. We use storage from the cloud. We use cloud function. We use messaging
services. We use IoT services. So a number of services already in use and
platform and that use will only grow as our digital footprint in the industry
grows.