(Music) In this video, we will look at how some of the leading businesses have
transformed the way they work to provide better customer service, remove
barriers to innovation, achieve enterprise scale, and accelerate growth, using
cloud technologies. Although the case studies we’ll look at are curated from IBM
Cloud, similar stories with dramatic impact to business can be found across the
spectrum of companies utilizing other Cloud Service providers as well. BETTER
CUSTOMER SERVICE: In the highly competitive airline industry, customer
experience is a major point of differentiation, and digital channels are
increasingly important. To become more responsive to customer needs, American
Airlines needed a new technology platform and a new approach to development that
would help it deliver digital self-service tools and customer value more rapidly
across its enterprise. The airline recognized the opportunity to remove the
constraints of their existing customer-facing applications, based on monolithic
code into cloud-native based microservices architecture on the cloud. The
results: Faster development and release of new apps. Improved operational
reliability, productivity, and end customer response times. Cost savings by
avoiding existing upgrade costs via migration to the IBM Cloud. REMOVING
BARRIERS TO INNOVATION: As a lean organization with a self-imposed limit on
headcount, UBank excels at finding innovative ways to meet demands. Continually
challenged to find more efficient ways to operate, UBank’s IT team explored a
Platform as a Service (PaaS) cloud development model. Their need was to give
more control to their developers, reduce the need for additional resources,
faster speed to market, and removing barriers in going from an idea to
production. UBank launched new initiatives in an IBM Cloud Platform environment,
including a virtual assistant that incorporates IBM Watson technology to support
the bank’s online home loan application. The results: Faster time to market made
possible through the Cloud Platform framework, that streamlines development and
empowers product teams. Foster greater innovation with cloud-based development
resources that are quick, easy, and cost-effective to deploy more efficient
operations. DEMAND FOR ENTERPRISE SCALE: Since its inception in 2008, Bitly has
journeyed from a startup that offered intelligent link-shortening technology
adopted by users to compress lengthy URLs for social media posts, to an
enterprise product. Seeking an agile, cost-effective IT infrastructure to
support this transition, Bitly started planning for cloud migration. Their need
was to have a cloud-based model with pay-as-you-go pricing, the ability to scale
up and down, a more global presence, and the ability to geodistribute into more
POPs. And they wanted it to be low-risk. Bitly migrated to an IBM Cloud
environment, establishing a scalable hosting platform for low-latency delivery
to enterprise customers around the world. The results: 25 billion data-infused
links migrated from one hosting site to Cloud infrastructure with data center
locations worldwide. 1 billion user interaction data set stored and managed in a
flexible, cost-effective Cloud Object Storage environment. Transformed IT
operations to scale for growth, control costs and focus valuable resources on
new product development. ACCELERATING GROWTH: Financial traders demand extreme
speed and availability from trading systems. Profitability depends on
split-second decisions. As a leading online broker in forex, commodities,
equities, cryptocurrencies, indices, and other financial instruments,
ActivTrades enables investors to buy and sell on numerous financial markets.
Investors need reliable access to accurate market information, combined with the
ability to move rapidly to execute trades. As its client base grew, Active
Trades wanted to cut latency, accelerate execution, and streamline the delivery
of new functions. ActivTrades migrated three major trading systems from
on-premises infrastructure to IBM Cloud for VMware solutions, backed by data
storage, networking, and security offerings on the IBM Cloud. The results: Up to
3X performance boost, helping clients seize fleeting opportunities for profit.
Security-rich cloud platform with ultra-high availability protects client
investments. Hours, not days to fire up new resources, for faster response to
emerging requirements. In the next video, we’ll look at some of the emerging
technologies that are available on the cloud and the opportunities they bring to
businesses.