(Music) Cloud adoption is no longer a thing of the future. From a single
individual to a global multi-billion-dollar enterprise, anybody can access the
computing capacity they need on the cloud. The lag time from decision to value
is no longer a journey of years with high upfront capital. Cloud makes it
possible for businesses to experiment, fail, and learn much faster than ever
before, with low risk exposure. Businesses today have greater freedom to change
course than to live with the consequences of expensive decisions taken in the
past. According to an IBM Institute for Business Value study, more than
three-quarters of enterprises today are using cloud computing to expand into new
industries. 74% have adopted cloud to improve customer experience, and 71% use
cloud to create enhanced products and services while simultaneously downsizing
legacy systems and reducing costs. To remain competitive, businesses need to be
able to respond quickly to marketplace changes, use analytics to understand
customer experience, and apply that understanding to adapt their products and
services based on what they learn. Product lifecycles have shortened, and
barriers to entry have become lower. Cognitively-enabled workflows, Applied
exponential technologies such as AI, Automation, IoT, and Blockchain,
applications that span new and legacy solutions, and open hybrid and secure
Multicloud infrastructures, are today's enablers for growth, agility and
innovation.  The power, scalability, flexibility, and pay-as-you-go economics of
cloud has made it the underpinning foundation for digital transformation. The
International Data Corporation, IDC, predicts that by 2025, the total amount of
digital data created worldwide will rise to 163 zettabytes (where one zettabyte
is equivalent to a trillion gigabytes). And 30% of this data will be real-time
information. Considering the unprecedented amounts of data being produced daily,
and the ability to make data-driven decisions crucial to any business, cloud
computing becomes essential for businesses to succeed, sustain, and compete in
today’s markets. A cloud strategy, more than just an IT strategy, is the core
component of any business strategy today. Businesses that haven’t already, or
are not currently, integrating cloud into their business strategy, run the risk
of lacking the speed, agility, innovation, and decision-making capacities needed
to be competitive, as also their ability to respond to digital disruption. In
the next video, we’ll look at some case studies that demonstrate the impact
businesses have created by adopting cloud.