(Music) Cloud computing is an evolution of technology over time. The concept of
cloud computing dates to the 1950s when large-scale mainframes with high-volume
processing power became available. In order to make efficient use of the
computing power of mainframes, the practice of time sharing, or resource
pooling, evolved. Using dumb terminals, whose sole purpose was to facilitate
access to the mainframes, multiple users were able to access the same data
storage layer and CPU power from any terminal. In the 1970s, with the release of
an operating system called Virtual Machine or VM, it became possible for
mainframes to have multiple virtual systems, or virtual machines, on a single
physical node. The virtual machine operating system evolved the 1950s
application of shared access of a mainframe by allowing multiple distinct
compute environments to exist on the same physical hardware. Each virtual
machine hosted guest operating systems that behaved as though they had their own
memory, CPU, and hard drives, even though these were shared resources.
Virtualization thus became a technology driver and a huge catalyst for some of
the biggest evolutions in communications and computing. Even 20 years ago,
physical hardware was quite expensive. With the internet becoming more
accessible, and the need to make hardware costs more viable, servers were
virtualized into shared hosting environments, virtual private servers, and
virtual dedicated servers, using the same types of functionality provided by the
virtual machine operating system. So, for example, if a company needed ‘x’
number of physical systems to run their applications, they could take one
physical node and split it into multiple virtual systems. This was enabled by
hypervisors. A hypervisor is a small software layer that enables multiple
operating systems to run alongside each other, sharing the same physical
computing resources. A hypervisor also separates the Virtual Machines logically,
assigning each its own slice of the underlying computing power, memory, and
storage, preventing the virtual machines from interfering with each other. If,
for example, one operating system suffers a crash or a security compromise, the
others keep working. As technologies and hypervisors improved and were able to
share and deliver resources reliably, some companies decided to make the cloud’s
benefits accessible to users who didn’t have an abundance of physical servers to
create their own cloud computing infrastructure. Since the servers were already
online, the process of spinning up a new instance was instantaneous. Users could
now order cloud resources they needed from a larger pool of available resources
and they could pay for them on a per-use basis, also known as Pay-As-You-Go.
This pay-as-you-go or utility computing model, became one of the key drivers
behind cloud computing taking off. The pay-per-use model allowed companies and
even individual developers to pay for the computing resources as and when they
used them, just like units of electricity. This allowed them to switch to a more
cash-flow friendly OpEx model from a CapEx model. This model appealed to all
sizes of companies, those who had little or no hardware, and even those that had
lots of hardware, because now, instead of making huge capital expenditures in
hardware, they could pay for compute resources as and when needed. It also
allowed them to scale their workloads during usage peaks, and scale down when
usage subsided. And this gave rise to modern-day cloud computing. The impact of
the evolution of the cloud has been immense. In the next training, we will go
over some key considerations for cloud adoption.