(Music) Hybrid Cloud is a computing environment that connects an organization's
on-premise private cloud and third-party public cloud into a single flexible
infrastructure for running the organization's applications and workloads. The
mix of public and private cloud resources gives organizations the flexibility to
choose the optimal cloud for each application or workload, workloads move freely
between the two clouds as needs change. Organizations can choose to run the
sensitive highly regulated and mission-critical applications or workloads with
reasonably constant performance and capacity requirements on private Cloud
infrastructure. While deploying the less sensitive and more dynamic workloads on
the public cloud. With proper integration and orchestration between the public
and private clouds, you can leverage both clouds for the same workload. For
example, you can leverage additional public cloud capacity to accommodate a
spike in demand for a private cloud application also known as cloud bursting.
The key tenants of a hybrid cloud are interoperability, scalability and
portability. Hybrid cloud is interoperable, which means, that the public and
private cloud services can understand each other's APIs, configuration, data
formats, and forms of authentication and authorization. When there is a spike in
demand a workload running on the private cloud can leverage the additional
public cloud capacity making it scalable. A hybrid cloud is also portable, since
you're no longer locked in with a specific vendor, you can move applications and
data not just between on-premise and cloud systems, but also between cloud
service providers. Hybrid is about taking the best of both worlds. There are two
common types of hybrid clouds, hybrid monocloud and hybrid multi-cloud. A Hybrid
Monocloud is a hybrid cloud with one cloud provider, while a Hybrid Multicloud
is an open standards-based stack that can be deployed on any public cloud
infrastructure. The difference lies in the flexibility that the hybrid
multicloud offers organizations to move workloads and environments from one
vendor to another. There is also a and of hybrid multicloud called the,
Composite Multicloud, which makes this flexibility even more granular as it
distributes single applications across multiple providers, allowing you to move
application components across cloud services and vendors as needed. Hybrid cloud
offers significant benefits in areas of security and compliance, scalability and
resilience, resource optimization, and cost saving. A hybrid cloud lets
organizations deploy highly regulated or sensitive workloads in a private cloud
while running the less-sensitive workloads on a public cloud. Using a hybrid
cloud you can scale up quickly, inexpensively, and even automatically using the
public cloud infrastructure, all without impacting the other workloads running
on your private cloud. Because you're not locked-in with a specific vendor and
also don't have to make either-or decisions between the different cloud models,
you can make the most cost-efficient use of your infrastructure budget. You can
maintain workloads where they are most efficient, spin-up environments using
pay-as-you-go in public cloud, and rapidly adopt new tools as you need them. A
typical organization will have a range of applications and workloads spread
across private public and traditional IT environments. This represents a range
of opportunities for optimization via a hybrid cloud approach. Let's look at
some increasingly common hybrid cloud use cases. Software-as-a-Service
integration, through hybrid integration organizations are connecting
software-as-a-service applications available in the public cloud to their
existing public cloud, private cloud, and traditional IT applications to deliver
new solutions. Data and AI integration, organizations today are creating richer
and more personal experiences by combining new data sources on the public cloud.
Such as weather, social, the Internet of things, CRM, and ERP, with existing
data in analytics, machine learning, and AI capabilities. Enhancing legacy apps,
an increasing number of organizations are using public cloud services to upgrade
their user experience of their on-premises applications and deploy them globally
to new devices, while incrementally modernizing their Core Business Systems. VM
ware migration, more and more organizations are lifting and shifting their
on-premises virtualized workloads to a public cloud without conversion or
modification to reduce their on-premises data center footprint and position
themselves to scale without added capital expense. Hybrid cloud is a concept
that's been around for quite some time, but we're finding that it's becoming
increasingly used to architect and modernize existing or legacy applications.
According to research we found that 75% of non-cloud applications will be moving
to the cloud in the next three years. This goes to say that if you're not
already thinking about your hybrid cloud strategy, you may be falling behind.
[MUSIC]