[MUSIC] In this video, we will discuss the Infrastructure-as-a-Service model in
more detail. Infrastructure-as-a-Service, commonly referred to as “IaaS,” – or
simply “eye-ass” -is a form of cloud computing that delivers fundamental
compute, network, and storage resources to consumers on-demand, over the
internet, on a pay-as-you-go basis. The cloud provider hosts the infrastructure
components traditionally present in an on-premises data center as well as the
virtualization or hypervisor layer. In an IaaS Cloud environment, customers can
create or provision virtual machines (or VMs) in their choice of Region and Zone
available from the Cloud Provider. These VMs typically come pre-installed the
customer’s choice of operating system. The customers can then deploy middleware,
install applications, and run workloads on these VMs. They can also and create
storage for their workloads and backups. Cloud providers often provide customers
the ability to track and monitor the performance and usage of their cloud
services and manage disaster recovery. Let’s look at the key components of cloud
infrastructure: Physical data centers: IaaS providers manage large data centers
that contain the physical machines required to power the various layers of
abstraction on top of them. In most IaaS models, end users do not interact
directly with the physical infrastructure but experience it as a service
provided to them. Compute: IaaS providers manage the hypervisors and end-users
programmatically provision virtual instances with desired amounts of compute,
memory, and storage resources. Cloud compute typically comes with supporting
services like auto scaling and load balancing that provide scalability and high
performance. Network: Users get access to networking resources on the cloud
through virtualization or programmatically, through APIs. Storage: There are
three types of cloud data storage: object, file, and block storage. Object
storage is the most common mode of storage in the cloud, given that it is highly
distributed and resilient. IaaS supports a wide array of use cases. We’ll look
at some typical use cases here. Organizations today are using cloud
infrastructure services to enable their teams to set up test and development
environments faster, helping create new applications more quickly. By
abstracting the low-level components, cloud infrastructure is helping developers
focus more on business logic than infrastructure management. Business continuity
and disaster recovery require a significant amount of technology and staff
investments. IaaS is helping organizations reduce this cost and make
applications and data accessible as usual during a disaster or outage.
Organizations are using cloud infrastructure to deploy their web applications
faster and also scale infrastructure up and down as demand fluctuates.
Organizations are leveraging the high-performance computing capabilities of
cloud infrastructure to solve complex problems involving millions of variables
and calculations such as climate and weather predictions and financial modeling.
Mining massive data sets to locate valuable patterns, trends, and associations
requires a huge amount of processing power. Cloud infrastructure not only
provides the required high-performance computing but also makes it economically
viable. While there are some concerns regarding the lack of transparency in the
cloud infrastructure’s configuration and management and dependency on a
third-party for workload availability and performance,
Infrastructure-as-a-Service is the fastest growing cloud model today. In the
next video, we will look at Platform-as-a-Service model, its features, benefits,
and some use cases.