(Music) In this new era, technologies such as Internet of Things, Big Data,
artificial intelligence, and blockchain are disrupting existing business models
and industries while creating unprecedented opportunities for businesses to
differentiate themselves and create value for their clients. The power, scale,
dynamic nature, and economics of the cloud resources make cloud computing a key
enabler for adoption and evolution of these emerging technologies. In this
video, we will look at how the Internet of Things, or IoT, powered by cloud, is
making a big difference for businesses today. The Internet of Things, or IoT, is
a giant network of connected things and people that have changed much of how we
live our daily lives - from the way we drive, to how we make purchases,
monitoring our personal health, and even how we get energy for our homes. Smart
devices and sensors are continuously tracking and collecting data. For example,
a smart building could have thousands of sensors measuring all kinds of data
related to thermal, optical, structural, and environmental stimuli. An
unprecedented amount of data is being generated, putting a tremendous strain on
the Internet.  That is where the cloud comes in, by connecting the IoT device
user to the cloud - be it for device registration, device identity, storing
data, or accessing enterprise data. Data collected through IoT devices is stored
and processed on the cloud since IoT devices can be in a state of motion, the
cloud serves as a collection point in closest proximity, minimizing the latency
in reporting up the data points and providing a response back to the IoT
application. So, from IOT platforms running entirely on the cloud to the
interfaces used by customers to interact these devices, to the backend analytics
platforms - cloud computing supports and enables IoT. Cloud service providers
also offer specialized IoT services designed to help speed up the development of
IoT solutions. Let's look at a case study that demonstrates the use of the IoT
on the cloud to combat the poaching of endangered rhinos at Welgevonden by
making poaching predictable. The rhinos have become one of the the key species
that is becoming endangered due to poaching throughout Africa. But now
especially in South Africa. Up until now, poachers have been increasing in
numbers, and they become more militarized with weapons. And so of course we've
had to do the same. This is not sustainable. The only way to do this better, is
to bring in technology and things that they do not have. This endangered species
is getting help from some unexpected friends, the zebra and antelope. They're
wearing IoT sensors connected to the IBM cloud. When poachers enter the area,
the animals run for it, which alerts Rangers who can track their emotions and
help stop them before any harm is done. It's a smart way to help increase the
Rhino population and turn the poachers into the endangered species.  In the next
video we're going to look at how artificial intelligence on the cloud is
impacting businesses.