(Music) Cloud computing is a key part of an enterprise’s digital transformation
strategy. As more and more companies are moving critical business processes and
applications to a mix of cloud infrastructures, qualified cloud computing
professionals are in high demand. According to Gartner’s report on the Cloud
Services Industry, from a market size of 182.4 Billion USD in 2018 to a
projected market size of 331.2 Billion USD in 2022, the market size and growth
of the cloud services industry is at nearly three times the growth of overall IT
services. That is the scale at which the cloud market is growing. Employer
demand is outpacing the number of qualified candidates available. Gartner
TalentNeuron’s database of more than one billion unique job listings, scores the
hiring scale for jobs requiring cloud computing skills at 78, which means
employers are finding it "difficult" to get the right applicants for open
positions in cloud technologies. There are many specialization areas within this
domain. Here’s a look at some of the common roles available currently: Cloud
Developers, or Cloud Software Engineers, work through all phases of the software
development lifecycle: writing, testing, and maintaining the code. They work
with the front- and back-end of applications, as well as platforms and systems
that their applications run on. Cloud Developers need to have a mix of technical
skills, business knowledge, and experience with at least one of the major cloud
providers. Technical skill for a Cloud Developer would typically include:
Knowledge of data structures, distributed systems, operating systems, and
algorithms. Experience with databases. Proficiency in commonly used web
application development languages, such as Python, JavaScript, Java, HTML, and
CSS. Cloud Integration Specialists are responsible for integrating new cloud
services, applications and infrastructure, into the organization’s portfolio of
internal systems and existing cloud services. These specialists assess the
implications and trade-offs between different solutions as they relate to the
integration between external and internal systems, optimize integration and
user-experience, and ensure that performance standards adhere to service level
agreements set with the enterprise. Cloud Data Engineers are responsible for
designing, developing, and deploying scalable data pipelines and data services.
They look at integrating new data management technologies and software
engineering tools into existing infrastructure. Their responsibilities include:
Understanding existing systems to recommend automated integration of disparate
data sets. Collaborating with data scientists and researchers to develop
predictive models and proofs of concept. Promoting best practices that enable
teams to accelerate their consumption and understanding of data. Improving
overall efficiency by introducing new engineering processes and tools. Cloud
Security Engineers provide expertise around the systems and processes needed to
protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of an organization’s
systems and application data. They determine security requirements, Plan,
implement, and test security systems, perform threat simulations to detect
possible risks. Recommend innovative technologies that will enhance the security
of cloud-based environments. Cloud Security Engineers need to have deep
knowledge of cloud platforms and services, software design patterns, and DevOps
tools and methodologies. Cloud DevOps Engineers collaborate with development and
operations teams to create reliable and rapid release pipelines for software and
updates. This may typically involve: Creating custom automation tools. Building
and maintaining configuration and deployment frameworks. Tracking design bugs
and automating the debugging process for developers. Maintaining and deploying
web-based applications. Monitoring security systems. Measuring performance
against expected business outcomes. Containerization expertise is increasingly a
must-have for DevOps Engineers. Cloud Solutions Architects work to translate
business requirements into application architecture and design. Some of the
technical skills required for a Cloud Architect role include: Deep knowledge of
cloud platforms and services. Deep understanding of software design patterns.
Knowledge of DevOps tools and methodologies. Good understanding of networking. A
high-level understanding of key security concepts. Solution Architects work
closely with Cloud Developers, Networking Specialists, Security Engineers,
Integration Specialists, and DevOps Engineers to architect and design solutions.
There are several resources available for learning cloud technologies, in a
variety of delivery methods, including instructor-led courses, self-paced online
courses, online videos, books, and also technology focused community forums.
Many cloud providers have dedicated learning portals with extensive resources
available on the complete range of cloud technologies and services they provide.
They offer: learning paths, which make resources available as per specific
career roles. Hands-on learning labs, with interactive learning resources that
can be filtered by role, level, or product. Free trials on their suite of
products and services.