(Music) Let’s look at some numbers and predictions that help us see the scale,
cloud is predicted to achieve in the coming years. Gartner predicts: The
worldwide public cloud service market to grow from $182.4 B in 2018 to $331.2 B
in 2022, attaining a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 12.6%. Spending on
Infrastructure-as-a-Service to increase from $30.5 B in 2018 to $76.6 B in 2022,
growing 27.5% in a year. Platform-as-a-Service spending to grow from $15.6 B in
2018 to $31.8B 2022, growing 21.8% in a year. With software investments shifting
from cloud-first to cloud-only, spending on Sofware-as-a-Service is expected to
grow from $80 B in 2018 to $143.7 B in 2022. What is clear is that cloud is
accelerating faster than predicted, adoption is high, and revenues are soaring.
The question for businesses today is no longer “if” they need to adopt the
cloud, rather “what” their cloud adoption strategy should be to best serve their
businesses and customers. Keeping up with this technological wave, and driving
it forward, are the Cloud Service Providers with a wide range of services. We
will now talk about some of the major Cloud Service Providers in alphabetical
order. Alibaba Cloud, also known as Aliyun, while relatively new, is the largest
Chinese cloud computing service provider. Aliyun provides a comprehensive suite
of global cloud computing services to power not just their customers’ online
businesses but also the Alibaba Group’s own e-commerce ecosystem. It offers a
host of products and services such as compute, network, storage, security,
monitoring and managing, communication, analytics, IoT, application development,
data migration, web hosting, and more. One of the first to enter the cloud
computing space, Amazon Web Services, or AWS Cloud, offers an extensive range of
Infrastructure and Platform services to individuals, companies, and governments
on a metered pay-as-you-go basis. The Amazon Cloud provides a wide range of
products, services, and solutions ranging from Compute, DevOps, Data, Analytics,
IoT, Machine Learning, Networking, Content Delivery, Robotics, Serverless
Computing, and much more. Google Cloud Platform, or GCP, is a suite of cloud
computing services, providing Infrastructure, Platform, and Serverless Computing
environments. Google also uses GCP internally for their end-user products such
as Google Search and YouTube. Google Cloud includes G Suite with products for
communication, productivity, collaboration, storage, and more. The Google App
Engine is a platform for developing and hosting web applications in
Google-managed data centers, automatically allocating and de-allocating
resources to handle demand. IBM cloud is a full stack cloud platform that spans
public, private, and hybrid environments with products and services covering
compute, network, storage, management, security, DevOps, and databases. Some of
their prominent offerings include their Bare Metal Servers, VMWare, Cloud Paks
for Application Modernization, Virtual Private Cloud, and the suite of emerging
technologies such as AI, IoT, Blockchain, Data and Analytics. With the
acquisition of Red Hat, IBM is also positioning itself as the leading hybrid
cloud provider of our times. Microsoft Azure is a flexible cloud platform for
building, testing, deploying, and managing applications and services through
Microsoft managed data centers. With its data centers spread out in many
regions, Azure provides a global reach with a local presence. It provides
Software, Platform, and Infrastructure services supporting Microsoft-specific
and third-party languages, tools, and frameworks. Oracle Cloud is primarily
known for Software as a Service and Database as a Service (also known as the
Oracle Data Cloud). Oracle’s SaaS offering includes wide-ranging applications
such as ERP, SCM, HCM, Marketing, Sales, and CX running in the cloud. And the
Oracle Data Cloud provides one of the largest cloud-based data management
platforms helping customers personalize their online, offline, and mobile
marketing campaigns, for targeted audiences. Oracle Cloud also provides some
cloud Infrastructure and Platform services. Salesforce specializes in their
Software as a Service offering that focuses on customer relationship management,
supporting businesses to better connect with their customers, partners, and
potential customers. Salesforce offers multiple cloud services such as Sales
Cloud, Service Cloud, and Marketing Cloud, helping customers track analytics in
real-time, customer success and support, customer complaints, even listening in
to customers across social platforms to automatically route them to appropriate
agents for resolution. SAP is known for Enterprise software and applications
such as ERP, CRM, HR, and Finance, running in the cloud. There is also an SAP
Cloud Platform for building and extending business applications with rapid
innovation cycles in a secure cloud computing environment managed by SAP. In the
next video, we’re going to look at the business case for cloud computing.