(Music) Platform-as-a-Service, commonly referred to as “PaaS” or simply "pass",
is a a cloud computing model that provides customers a complete platform to
develop, deploy manage, and run applications created by them or acquired from a
third-party. The PaaS provider hosts everything—servers, networks, storage,
operating system, application runtimes, APIs, middleware, databases, and other
tools at their data center. The provider also takes responsibility for the
installation, configuration, and operation of the application infrastructure,
leaving the user responsible for only the application code and its maintenance.
Customers pay for this service on a usage basis and purchase resources
on-demand. With IaaS, the cloud provider offers access to ‘raw’ computing
resources, such as servers, storage, and networking, while the user is
responsible for the platform and application software. With PaaS, the cloud
service provider delivers and manages the entire platform infrastructure,
abstracting users from the lower-level details of the environment. Let’s look at
some essential characteristics of Platform-as-a-Service or PaaS : PaaS clouds
are distinguished by the high level of abstraction they provide to the users,
eliminating the complexity of deploying applications, configuring
infrastructure, and provisioning and configuring supporting technologies like
load balancers and databases. PaaS clouds provide services and APIs that help
simplify the job of developers in delivering elastically scalable and highly
available cloud applications. These services typically include a variety of
capabilities such as APIs for distributed caching, queuing and messaging, file
and data storage, workload management, user identity, and analytics, thus
eliminating the need to integrate disparate components. The PaaS runtime
environment executes end-user code according to policies set by the application
owner and cloud provider. Many of the PaaS offerings provide developers with
rapid deployment mechanisms, or “push and run” mechanism, for deploying and
running applications. PaaS offerings support a range of application
infrastructure or middleware capabilities, such as application servers, database
management systems, business analytics servers, mobile back-end services,
integration services, business process management systems, rules engines, and
complex event processing systems. Such an application infrastructure assists
developers by reducing the amount of code that must be written while expanding
the application’s functional capabilities. The most important use case for PaaS
is strategic—build, test, deploy, enhance, and scale applications rapidly and
cost-effectively. Let’s look at some more use cases for PaaS: API development
and management: Organizations are using PaaS to develop, run, manage, and secure
APIs and microservices, which are loosely coupled, independently deployable
components and services. Internet of Things, or IoT: PaaS clouds support a broad
range of application environments, programming languages, and tools used for IoT
deployments. Business analytics/intelligence: PaaS tools allow organizations to
analyze their data to find business insights that enable more informed business
decisions and predictions. Business Process Management, or BPM: Organizations
are using the PaaS cloud to access BPM platform delivered as a service. Master
data management, or MDM: Organizations are leveraging the PaaS cloud to provide
a single point of reference for critical business data such as information about
customer transactions and analytical data to support decision making. Let’s look
at some advantages of using PaaS: Scalability, made possible because of the
rapid allocation and deallocation of resources with a pay-as-you-use model
offered by PaaS. The APIs, support services, and middleware capabilities that
PaaS clouds provide assist developers in focusing their efforts on application
development and testing, resulting in faster time to market for their products
and services. Middleware capabilities also reduce the amount of code that needs
to be written while expanding the application’s functional capabilities. Greater
agility and innovation because using PaaS platforms means that you can
experiment with multiple operating systems, languages, and tools without having
to invest in these resources. You can evaluate and prototype ideas with very low
risk exposure resulting in faster, easier, less-risky adoption of a wider range
of resources. Some of the key PaaS offerings available in the market today
include AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Foundry, IBM Cloud Paks, Windows Azure,
RedHat OpenShift, Magento Commerce Cloud, Force.com, and Apache Stratos. PaaS
clouds do come with some risks—risks that all cloud offerings have in general,
such as information security threats and dependency on the service provider’s
infrastructure. Services can get impacted when a service provider’s
infrastructure experiences downtime. Customers also don’t have any direct
control over the changes that may take place when a provider makes changes in
its strategy, service offerings, or tools. But the benefits can far outweigh
these risks. PaaS continues to experience strong growth and is predicted to
become the prevailing platform delivery model moving forward. In the next video,
we will look at Software-as-a-Service model, its features, benefits, and some
use cases.