(Music) The National Institute of Standards and Technology defines Private Cloud
as cloud infrastructure provisioned for exclusive use by a single organization
comprising multiple consumers, such as the business units within the
organization. It may be owned, managed, and operated by the organization, a
third party, or some combination of them, and it may exist on or off premises.
Private cloud platforms can be implemented internally or externally. When the
platform is provisioned over an organization’s internal infrastructure, it runs
on-premises and is owned, managed, and operated by the organization. When it is
provisioned over a cloud provider’s infrastructure, it is owned, managed, and
operated by the service provider. This external private cloud offering that
resides on a cloud service provider’s infrastructure is called a Virtual Private
Cloud, or VPC. A VPC is a public cloud offering that lets an organization
establish its own private and secure cloud-like computing environment in a
logically isolated part of a shared public cloud. Using a VPC, organizations can
leverage the dynamic scalability, high availability, and lower cost of ownership
of a public cloud, while having the infrastructure and security tailored to the
organization’s unique needs. Virtual Private Clouds are offered by most Public
Cloud providers such as IBM and Amazon. A private cloud is a virtualized
environment modeled to bring in the benefits of a public cloud platform without
the perceived disadvantages of an open and shared public platform. Users of a
private cloud, such as Developers and Business Units in an organization, still
get to leverage benefits such as economies of scale, granular scale, operational
efficiencies, and user self-service, while exercising full control over access,
security, and compliances specific to their organization and business. Private
clouds provide you with 1.The ability to leverage the value of cloud computing
using systems that are directly managed or under perceived control of the
organization’s internal IT. 2.The ability to better utilize internal computing
resources, such as the organization’s existing investments in hardware and
software, thereby reducing costs. 3.Better scalability through virtualization
and “cloud bursting,” i.e., leveraging public cloud instances for a period of
time but returning to the private cloud when the surge is met. 4.Controlled
access and greater security measures customized to specific organizational
needs. 5.The ability to expand and provision things in a relatively short amount
of time, providing greater agility. Organizations may choose to opt for private
cloud because of various reasons—because their applications provide a unique
competitive advantage, there are security and regulatory concerns, or because
the data is highly sensitive and subject to strict industry or governmental
regulations. Let’s look at some common use cases for a private cloud: A private
cloud is an opportunity for organizations to modernize and unify their in-house
and legacy applications. Moving these applications from their dedicated hardware
to the cloud also allows them to leverage the power of the compute resources and
multiple services available on the cloud. 2.Using the private cloud,
organizations are integrating data and application services from their existing
applications with public cloud services. This allows them to leverage their
private cloud’s compute capability for the larger jobs while pulling data into
an application on a private cloud to leverage public cloud services —
essentially opening their data centers to work with cloud services.
3.Application portability is a key feature of cloud platforms. Using the private
cloud gives organizations the ability to build applications anywhere, and move
them anywhere, without having to compromise security and compliance in the
process. 4.Some of the key reasons that may prevent an organization from moving
to a public cloud include security and regulatory concerns, and data
sensitivity. A private cloud offers these organizations the benefits of
on-demand enterprise resources while exercising full control over critical
security and compliance issues from within the environment of their dedicated
cloud. In the next video, we will look at the hybrid cloud model, its features,
benefits, and some use cases.