(Music) In our introductory cloud video, we briefly mentioned the three
deployment models for cloud. In this video, we will discuss the Public Cloud
deployment model in more detail. Deployment models indicate where the
infrastructure resides, who owns and manages it, and how cloud resources and
services are made available to users. The three cloud deployment models
include—Public Cloud, Private Cloud, and Hybrid Cloud. In a public cloud model,
users get access to servers, storage, network, security, and applications as
services delivered by cloud service providers over the internet. Using web
consoles and APIs, users can provision the resources and services they need. The
cloud provider owns, manages, provisions, and maintains the infrastructure,
renting it out to customers either for a subscription charge or usage-based fee.
Users don’t own the servers their applications run on or storage their data
consumes, or manage the operations of the servers, or even determine how the
platforms are maintained. In very much the same way that we consume and pay for
utilities such as water, electricity, or gas in our everyday lives, we don’t own
any of these cloud resources—we make an agreement with the service provider, use
the resources, and pay for what we use within a certain period. Public clouds
offer significant cost savings as the provider bears all the capital,
operational, and maintenance expenses for the infrastructure and the facilities
they are hosted in. It makes scalability as easy as requesting more capacity.
However, with a public cloud, the user does not have any control over the
computing environment and is subject to the performance and security of the
cloud provider’s infrastructure. There are several public cloud providers in the
market today, such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, IBM Cloud, Google
Cloud Platform, and Alibaba Cloud. While all providers include a common set of
core services, such as servers, storage, network, security, and databases, they
also offer a wide spectrum of niche services with varied payment options. Let’s
talk about some of the characteristics of a public cloud: A public cloud is a
virtualized multi-tenant architecture enabling tenants or users to share
computing resources, residing outside their firewalls. The cloud providers pool
of resources, including infrastructure, platforms, and software, are not
dedicated for use by a single tenant or organization. Resources are distributed
on an as-needed basis offered through a variety of subscription and
pay-as-you-go models. Public clouds have significant benefits. We’ll go over
some of these benefits here: Vast on-demand resources are available, allowing
applications to respond seamlessly to fluctuations in demand. Considering the
large number of users that share the centralized cloud resources on-demand, the
public cloud offers the most significant economies of scale. The sheer number of
server and network resources available on the public cloud means that a public
cloud is highly reliable. If one physical component fails, the service still
runs unaffected on the remaining available components. It’s also important to
note some concerns users have regarding public clouds—key among them being
security and data sovereignty compliance. Security issues such as data breaches,
data loss, account hijacking, insufficient due diligence, and system and
application vulnerability seem to be some of the fears users continue to have
concerning security in the public cloud. With data being stored in different
locations and accessed across national borders, it has also become increasingly
critical for companies to be compliant with data sovereignty regulations
governing the storage, transfer, and security of data. A service provider’s
ability to not just keep up with the regulations, but also the interpretation of
these regulations, is a concern shared by many businesses. Let’s look at some
common use cases for public cloud. Organizations are increasingly opting to
access cloud-based applications and platforms so their teams can focus on
building and testing applications, and reducing time-to-market for their
products and services. Businesses with fluctuating capacity and resourcing needs
are opting for the public cloud. Organizations are using public cloud computing
resources to build secondary infrastructures for disaster recovery, data
protection, and business continuity. More and more organizations are using cloud
storage and data management services for greater accessibility, easy
distribution, and backing up their data. IT departments are outsourcing the
management of less critical and standardized business platforms and applications
to pubic cloud providers. In the next video, we will look at the private cloud
model, its features, benefits, and some use cases.