(Music) Software-as-a-Service, “SaaS”, is a cloud offering that provides users
with access to a service provider’s cloud-based software. SaaS providers
maintain the servers, databases, and code that constitute an application. They
also manage access to the application, including security, availability, and
performance. Applications reside on a remote cloud network, and users use these
applications without having to maintain and update the infrastructure. Core
business processes supported by SaaS today include email and collaboration via
offerings such as Microsoft's Office 365 and Google's Gmail, Customer
Relationship Management via services such as NetSuite CRM and Salesforce, Human
Resource Management via services from Workday and SAP SuccessFactors, financial
management, billing and collaboration, and many more. According to Forrester
Research, SaaS has overtaken on-premises solutions in categories such as human
capital management (HCM), customer relationship management (CRM), and
collaboration. Solutions once available with several different deployment
options are now SaaS-only. Let’s look at key characteristics of
Software-as-a-Service.  SaaS clouds have a multitenant architecture.
Infrastructure and code are maintained centrally and accessed by all users. SaaS
makes it easy for users to manage privileges, monitor data use, and ensure
everyone sees the same information at the same time. Security, compliance, and
maintenance are all part of the offering. Users can customize applications to
fit their business processes with point-and-click ease. Users can customize the
UI to work with their branding guidelines; they can modify data fields and
enable or disable features within the business process. These customizations are
preserved through upgrades. Users pay for the use of the services via a
subscription model. The use of resources can be scaled easily, depending on
service needs. Key benefits of adopting SaaS: Businesses can directly procure
solutions without upfront capital and assistance from IT, greatly reducing the
time from decision to value from months to days. SaaS greatly increases
workforce productivity and efficiency. Users can access core business apps from
wherever they are. They can also buy and deploy apps in minutes, reducing the
typical obstacles enterprises have to test the products they they might use.
Using SaaS applications, individuals and small enterprises can spread out their
software costs over time. Let’s look at some use cases for SaaS: Organizations
are moving to SaaS for their core business needs as part of their strategic
transformation to reduce on-premises IT infrastructure and reduce capital
expenditure. Oragnzaitions are leveraging SaaS to avoid the need for ongoing
upgrades, maintenance, and patching, done traditionally by internal IT
resources; applications run reliably with minimal input, for example, email
servers and office collaboration and productivity tools. Organizations are
increasingly opting for SaaS eCommerce Platforms to manage their websites,
marketing, sales, and operations. With SaaS, organizations are able to take
advantage of the resilience and business continuity of the cloud provider.
Enterprises are now developing SaaS integration platforms (or SIPs) for building
additional SaaS applications, moving SaaS beyond standalone software
functionality to a platform for mission-critical applications. SaaS does evoke
some concerns, as well. Primary among them being data ownership and data safety.
Security is an important consideration when you’re allowing a third-party to
maintain business-critical data. And application access relies on a good
internet connection. If you’re not connected, you cannot access the apps. But
the benefits far outweigh the concerns, with SaaS making up the largest segment
of the cloud market today.