(Music) In our introductory cloud video we briefly talked about the three
service models available on the cloud.  Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as
a Service, and Software as a Service.  Before we dive into the details of each
of these service models in the subsequent videos, let's get started with a quick
overview of these models. Hi, I'm Tessa Rhodes, and I'm a designer on IBM Cloud.
So let's start with the foundation here with IaaS. IaaS is a set of compute
networking and storage resources that have been virtualized by a vendor so that
a user can access and configure them any way they want. In design we have a
concept of talking about users, called personas, and the persona for IaaS is a
system admin, or an IT admin. Let's jump up to the top with Software as a
Service that's the easy one. Software as a Service is just software that you
don't have to install on your machine and you don't have to manually update. And
so the user for Software as a Service could be anyone. In fact, if you're
watching this on YouTube right now, then you're a user of Software as a Service.
It's usually charged on a subscription model rather than a one-time license fee.
And that brings us to Platform as a Service. PaaS takes advantage of all the
virtualized resources from Iaas and then just abstracts them away, so the user
doesn't have to worry about managing any of those virtualized resources. The
user for PaaS is not a system admin, usually. It's usually a dev. In IBM we call
this dev, Jane. That's the name of our persona. And so this whole metaphor, the
pyramid metaphor, is meant to indicate that as you move down, you're increasing
complexity in terms of your knowledge and management of infrastructure resources
and you're increasing the ease of use. Another metaphor I use when I'm talking
to the designers on my team about PaaS, is having to do with a car.  So in this
metaphor IaaS is like leasing a car. So if you've ever leased a car, you
probably did a lot of research, and you care about the specs of the car and
their performance. You care about the color of the car, what kind of car it is.
You're the one driving and you're the one paying for it. You're also paying for
the gas and any tolls or maintenance. With Platform as a Service in this
metaphor, that's more like renting a car. So say you're on vacation and you just
got off at the air Airport and you're going to pick up your rental car. You
don't really care what color it is. You don't even care about the specs of it,
but you're still driving and you're paying for the gas and any tolls you go
through. Software as a Service is again the easiest one. That one's more like
getting a taxi or an uber. So with the taxi or an uber, you don't care at all
about what kind of car it is, what color it is and in fact, you're not even the
one driving, or paying for gas, or any tolls because that's baked into the
price.  So let's see what it means in terms of cloud computing and its three
service models.  With IaaS, the cloud provider manages the physical resources,
data centers, cooling power, Network and security, as well as computing
resources that include servers and storage. With PaaS, the provider, in addition
to the computing resources, also manages the platform infrastructure which
includes the operating systems, development tools, databases, and business
analytics. In the SaaS model, in addition to the infrastructure and the platform
resources, the provider also hosts and manages the applications and data. In the
next video, we'll take a closer look at infrastructure-as-a-service its
features, benefits, and some use cases.