[Music] You need to have a continuous security monitoring so that you know at
any point whether you're compliant, your policies, you can watch out for threats
that you need to manage. Having an approach and set of tools to manage security
and compliance posture is very important. Gaining insights about your posture,
compliance, and threats. So from your deployment environment you can garner
information. It can be security events, audit logs, flow logs from network or
system that can be fed in so that you can figure out what your posture, and
complaints, and threats are. And not only is it important for you to gain
insight, you need to have actionable intelligence so that you can start to
mediate. You may figure out there's a vulnerability; a container image that you
have deployed is vulnerable, so you can remediate and respin up a new container.
There may be a particular access from a network that seems to be coming in from
a suspicious network IP address. You can block that. So ability to gain
visibility and insights, and having that insight and turning it into actionable
intelligence and remediating is very important. Let's talk about DevOps. DevOps
is about development and operations. Traditionally we think about, okay, there's
an application team that is doing the design and architecture for building code,
and then you throw it over the wall for the enterprise security team to secure
it and manage it. That should be rethought. Fundamentally, it's not just about
dev and ops, but security needs to be a forethought, not an afterthought. So it
should become SecDevOps approach to the way you build, manage, and run your
applications. You need to embed security into the entire lifecycle, what we call
shift left. Not only will you manage security, but shift left through the entire
process. You need to have a secure design. So as you plan, as you design and
say: what kind of data am I going to put what level of classification? What kind
of applications am I building? Is it container-based? Is it a workload that I'm
migrating? Take that into account along with what integrations you need to do so
that you can plan it and architect it. Then as you build it, embed security as
part of that process. Do you have security aware applications? For example, you
may want to encrypt data, or the sensitive data. You may want to encrypt the
data from your applications before you even store it into a data store.  So,
secure build - and you manage security. As part of SecDevOps, as you have secure
design and architecture, you pass on that and build secure applications and
deploy and manage security in continuous fashion. Then you have a closed loop so
that whatever you find, you may need to remediate, or rearchitect your
application, or implement certain things as the threats landscape evolves. In
the next video, we will look at Identity and Access Management. [Music]